README.md, before:

# react-native-floating-action

Floating action button for React Native

## Expo example

Open the following click on your phone: [Expo link](https://expo.io/@santomegonzalo/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo)

or user your phone and scan the following QR:

<img width="350" alt="Use it on Expo" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2914973/34082582-667c5738-e361-11e7-9251-5af5549b525c.png">

## Example of how Expo looks

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2914973/37876447-c5f553d0-304c-11e8-8c4f-7d6ef97d752c.gif" width="350">

## Installation

```
npm i react-native-floating-action --save
```

or

```
yarn add react-native-floating-action
```

## Example

Take a look into **example/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo**

To execute the example using **Expo** run the following command:

```bash
yarn run run:example
```

or open [Expo link](https://expo.io/@santomegonzalo/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo) from your mobile

## How to use it

**First step:** import the component:

```javascript
import { FloatingAction } from "react-native-floating-action";
```

**Second step:** define the buttons

```javascript
const actions = [
  {
    text: "Accessibility",
    icon: require("./images/ic_accessibility_white.png"),
    name: "bt_accessibility",
    position: 2
  },
  {
    text: "Language",
    icon: require("./images/ic_language_white.png"),
    name: "bt_language",
    position: 1
  },
  {
    text: "Location",
    icon: require("./images/ic_room_white.png"),
    name: "bt_room",
    position: 3
  },
  {
    text: "Video",
    icon: require("./images/ic_videocam_white.png"),
    name: "bt_videocam",
    position: 4
  }
];
```

**Third step:** use it

```javascript
<View style={styles.container}>
  <Text style={styles.example}>Floating Action example</Text>
  <FloatingAction
    actions={actions}
    onPressItem={name => {
      console.log(`selected button: ${name}`);
    }}
  />
</View>
```

### Open and hide it programatically

There are some cases where you want to show or hide the component without pressing the main button:

```javascript
<FloatingAction
  ref={(ref) => { this.floatingAction = ref; }}
  actions={[...]}
  ...
/>
```

and then:

```javascript
this.floatingAction.animateButton();
```

## Configuration

**FloatingAction**

| Property                | Type     | Default                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| actions                 | array    | []                                                                                                        | Actions to be show once user press the main button                                                                   |
| color                   | string   | #1253bc                                                                                                   | Color of the main button                                                                                             |
| distanceToEdge          | number or object   | 30                                                                                              | Distance from button to edge. Can be a number or `{ vertical: Number, horizontal: Number }` object.                  |
| visible                 | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | Hide or Show the component using an animation                                                                        |
| overlayColor            | string   | rgba(68, 68, 68, 0.6)                                                                                     | Color of the background overlay                                                                                      |
| position                | string   | right                                                                                                     | Position to render the main button and actions, options: (**left**, **right**, **center**)                           |
| overrideWithAction      | string   | false                                                                                                     | Override the main action with the first action inside list actions, will not show other action                       |
| floatingIcon            | node     | ReactElement                                                                                              |                                                                                                                      | Change the default plus icon using **require(pathToImage)** or **ReactElement** |
| showBackground          | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | **Show** or **Hide** background after open it                                                                        |
| openOnMount             | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Open component after mounting it, useful on some weird cases like tutorials                                          |
| actionsPaddingTopBottom | number   | 8                                                                                                         | Change distance between actions                                                                                      |
| iconWidth               | number   | 15                                                                                                        | Icon width of the main button                                                                                        |
| iconHeight              | number   | 15                                                                                                        | Icon height of the main button                                                                                       |
| listenKeyboard          | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Change position when the keyboard will appear                                                                        |
| dismissKeyboardOnPress  | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Dismiss keyboard when user press on the main button                                                                  |
| shadow                  | object   | `{ shadowOpacity: 0.35, shadowOffset: { width: 0, height: 5 }, shadowColor: "#000000", shadowRadius: 3 }` | Change how we render the shadow of every button, this style will apply to the main button and to every action button |
| onPressItem             | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as the user select an option from actions. Will return the name of the action.           |
| onPressMain             | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as use click main button and will return **true** or **false** depeneding of the state.  |
| onPressBackdrop         | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as the backdrop is clicked.                                                              |
| onClose                 | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after set state to **false**                                                                     |
| onOpen                  | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after set state to **true**                                                                      |
| onStateChange           | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after every state change. Will return state object                                               |
| animated                | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | Enable the animation                                                                                                 |

**Actions**

| Property       | Type     | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -------------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| color          | string   | #1253bc | Color of the action button                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| icon           | any      |         | Icon to be rendered inside the action, will accept an URL or React.Image. If we want to send an URL we need to send it in this way: icon: **{ uri: 'https://imageurl.com' }** if we want to send a React.Image we will use it in this way: **icon: require('path/image')** |
| name           | string   |         | Name of the icon, this name is used as parameter for **onPressItem** action                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| text           | string   |         | Text to show near to the button. (Only apply for **position = ['left', 'right']**)                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| textBackground | string   | #ffffff | Background color for Text container                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| textColor      | string   | #444444 | Text color for every action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| textElevation  | number   | 5       | Elevation property (also modifies "shadowOffset" in iOS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| render         | function |         | Custom render function for Action. If provided, other properties are not applicable. The provided function should return a React Node                                                                                                                                      |
| margin         | number   | 8       | Additional margin for action. This property is useful when we want to override the current margin for example using custom render                                                                                                                                          |
| size           | number   | 40      | size of of the icon rendered inside the action                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

## TODO

- [x] first implementation
- [x] example
- [x] add colors configurations
- [x] add more positions like left, center and right
- [x] support hide or show the component with an animation
- [x] change plus icon to be customizable
- [x] use components as icon
- [x] hide background
- [x] open on mounting
- [ ] migrate to TypeScript
- [ ] allow user defined animations
- [ ] use crazy animations

Commit message:

Set custom sizes for main and action buttons (#93)
* Add `buttonSize` prop to set Main Button's size

*  Add `buttonSize` prop to set action buttons' size

* Align action buttons and labels with flex

* Fix README.md

* Configure vertical and horizontal `distanceToEdge`

* Fix typo

README.md, after:

# react-native-floating-action

Floating action button for React Native

## Expo example

Open the following click on your phone: [Expo link](https://expo.io/@santomegonzalo/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo)

or user your phone and scan the following QR:

<img width="350" alt="Use it on Expo" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2914973/34082582-667c5738-e361-11e7-9251-5af5549b525c.png">

## Example of how Expo looks

<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/2914973/37876447-c5f553d0-304c-11e8-8c4f-7d6ef97d752c.gif" width="350">

## Installation

```
npm i react-native-floating-action --save
```

or

```
yarn add react-native-floating-action
```

## Example

Take a look into **example/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo**

To execute the example using **Expo** run the following command:

```bash
yarn run run:example
```

or open [Expo link](https://expo.io/@santomegonzalo/ReactNativeFloatingAction-Expo) from your mobile

## How to use it

**First step:** import the component:

```javascript
import { FloatingAction } from "react-native-floating-action";
```

**Second step:** define the buttons

```javascript
const actions = [
  {
    text: "Accessibility",
    icon: require("./images/ic_accessibility_white.png"),
    name: "bt_accessibility",
    position: 2
  },
  {
    text: "Language",
    icon: require("./images/ic_language_white.png"),
    name: "bt_language",
    position: 1
  },
  {
    text: "Location",
    icon: require("./images/ic_room_white.png"),
    name: "bt_room",
    position: 3
  },
  {
    text: "Video",
    icon: require("./images/ic_videocam_white.png"),
    name: "bt_videocam",
    position: 4
  }
];
```

**Third step:** use it

```javascript
<View style={styles.container}>
  <Text style={styles.example}>Floating Action example</Text>
  <FloatingAction
    actions={actions}
    onPressItem={name => {
      console.log(`selected button: ${name}`);
    }}
  />
</View>
```

### Open and hide it programatically

There are some cases where you want to show or hide the component without pressing the main button:

```javascript
<FloatingAction
  ref={(ref) => { this.floatingAction = ref; }}
  actions={[...]}
  ...
/>
```

and then:

```javascript
this.floatingAction.animateButton();
```

## Configuration

**FloatingAction**

| Property                | Type     | Default                                                                                                   | Description                                                                                                          |
| ----------------------- | -------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| actions                 | array    | []                                                                                                        | Actions to be show once user press the main button                                                                   |
| color                   | string   | #1253bc                                                                                                   | Color of the main button                                                                                             |
| distanceToEdge          | number or object   | 30                                                                                              | Distance from button to edge. Can be a number or `{ vertical: Number, horizontal: Number }` object.                  |
| visible                 | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | Hide or Show the component using an animation                                                                        |
| overlayColor            | string   | rgba(68, 68, 68, 0.6)                                                                                     | Color of the background overlay                                                                                      |
| position                | string   | right                                                                                                     | Position to render the main button and actions, options: (**left**, **right**, **center**)                           |
| overrideWithAction      | string   | false                                                                                                     | Override the main action with the first action inside list actions, will not show other action                       |
| floatingIcon            | node     | ReactElement                                                                                              |                                                                                                                      | Change the default plus icon using **require(pathToImage)** or **ReactElement** |
| showBackground          | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | **Show** or **Hide** background after open it                                                                        |
| openOnMount             | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Open component after mounting it, useful on some weird cases like tutorials                                          |
| actionsPaddingTopBottom | number   | 8                                                                                                         | Change distance between actions                                                                                      |
| iconWidth               | number   | 15                                                                                                        | Icon width of the main button                                                                                        |
| iconHeight              | number   | 15                                                                                                        | Icon height of the main button                                                                                       |
| buttonSize              | number   | 56                                                                                                        | Size of the main button                                                                                       |
| listenKeyboard          | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Change position when the keyboard will appear                                                                        |
| dismissKeyboardOnPress  | boolean  | false                                                                                                     | Dismiss keyboard when user press on the main button                                                                  |
| shadow                  | object   | `{ shadowOpacity: 0.35, shadowOffset: { width: 0, height: 5 }, shadowColor: "#000000", shadowRadius: 3 }` | Change how we render the shadow of every button, this style will apply to the main button and to every action button |
| onPressItem             | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as the user select an option from actions. Will return the name of the action.           |
| onPressMain             | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as use click main button and will return **true** or **false** depeneding of the state.  |
| onPressBackdrop         | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call as soon as the backdrop is clicked.                                                              |
| onClose                 | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after set state to **false**                                                                     |
| onOpen                  | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after set state to **true**                                                                      |
| onStateChange           | function |                                                                                                           | Function to be call after every state change. Will return state object                                               |
| animated                | boolean  | true                                                                                                      | Enable the animation                                                                                                 |

**Actions**

| Property       | Type     | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| -------------- | -------- | ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| color          | string   | #1253bc | Color of the action button                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
| icon           | any      |         | Icon to be rendered inside the action, will accept an URL or React.Image. If we want to send an URL we need to send it in this way: icon: **{ uri: 'https://imageurl.com' }** if we want to send a React.Image we will use it in this way: **icon: require('path/image')** |
| name           | string   |         | Name of the icon, this name is used as parameter for **onPressItem** action                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| buttonSize     | number   | 40      | Size of of the action button                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |
| text           | string   |         | Text to show near to the button. (Only apply for **position = ['left', 'right']**)                                                                                                                                                                                         |
| textBackground | string   | #ffffff | Background color for Text container                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| textColor      | string   | #444444 | Text color for every action                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| textElevation  | number   | 5       | Elevation property (also modifies "shadowOffset" in iOS)                                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| render         | function |         | Custom render function for Action. If provided, other properties are not applicable. The provided function should return a React Node                                                                                                                                      |
| margin         | number   | 8       | Additional margin for action. This property is useful when we want to override the current margin for example using custom render                                                                                                                                          |
| size           | number   | 40      | Size of of the icon rendered inside the action                                                                                                                                                                                                                             |

## TODO

- [x] first implementation
- [x] example
- [x] add colors configurations
- [x] add more positions like left, center and right
- [x] support hide or show the component with an animation
- [x] change plus icon to be customizable
- [x] use components as icon
- [x] hide background
- [x] open on mounting
- [ ] migrate to TypeScript
- [ ] allow user defined animations
- [ ] use crazy animations
